docs/scheduling.md, before:

# Scheduling

Run automated imports on a schedule using the built-in scheduler.

## Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Create .env file with all required settings
cat > .env << 'EOF'
# CDS API (required - get key from https://cds.climate.copernicus.eu/how-to-api)
CDSAPI_KEY=your-cds-api-key

# DHIS2 connection (required)
DHIS2_BASE_URL=https://your-dhis2-instance.org
DHIS2_USERNAME=your-username
DHIS2_PASSWORD=your-password
DHIS2_DATA_ELEMENT_ID=your-data-element-id

# Date range to import
DHIS2_START_DATE=2024-01-01
DHIS2_END_DATE=2024-12-31

# Schedule (daily at 6am)
DHIS2_CRON=0 6 * * *
EOF

# 2. Start the scheduler
docker compose -f compose.ghcr.yml up -d schedule

# 3. Check it's running
docker compose -f compose.ghcr.yml logs schedule
```

## How It Works

The scheduler mode uses system cron inside the container:

1. Container starts and reads `DHIS2_CRON` environment variable
2. Creates a crontab entry with the specified schedule
3. Runs `cron` daemon in foreground
4. On each trigger, spawns `dhis2-era5land run` as a separate process

This provides **process isolation** - if an import fails or crashes, it doesn't affect the scheduler.

## Environment Variables

| Variable | Required | Description |
|----------|----------|-------------|
| `CDSAPI_KEY` | **Yes** | CDS API key ([get one here](https://cds.climate.copernicus.eu/how-to-api)) |
| `CDSAPI_URL` | No | CDS API URL (default: `https://cds.climate.copernicus.eu/api`) |
| `DHIS2_BASE_URL` | **Yes** | DHIS2 instance URL |
| `DHIS2_USERNAME` | **Yes** | DHIS2 username |
| `DHIS2_PASSWORD` | **Yes** | DHIS2 password |
| `DHIS2_DATA_ELEMENT_ID` | **Yes** | Target data element |
| `DHIS2_START_DATE` | **Yes** | Start date for imports |
| `DHIS2_END_DATE` | **Yes** | End date for imports |
| `DHIS2_CRON` | No | Cron expression (default: `0 1 * * *`) |

## Cron Expression Examples

| Expression | Description |
|------------|-------------|
| `0 6 * * *` | Daily at 6:00 AM |
| `0 0 * * *` | Daily at midnight |
| `0 6 * * 1` | Weekly on Monday at 6:00 AM |
| `0 0 1 * *` | Monthly on the 1st at midnight |
| `*/5 * * * *` | Every 5 minutes (for testing) |

## Docker Compose

### Using Pre-built Image (recommended)

```bash
docker compose -f compose.ghcr.yml up schedule
```

### Building Locally

```bash
docker compose up schedule
```

## Example .env File

```env
# CDS API (required)
CDSAPI_URL=https://cds.climate.copernicus.eu/api
CDSAPI_KEY=your-cds-api-key

# Schedule (optional, defaults to daily at 1am)
DHIS2_CRON=0 6 * * *

# Date range
DHIS2_START_DATE=2024-01-01
DHIS2_END_DATE=2024-12-31

# DHIS2 connection
DHIS2_BASE_URL=https://your-dhis2-instance.org
DHIS2_USERNAME=your-username
DHIS2_PASSWORD=your-password
DHIS2_DATA_ELEMENT_ID=your-data-element-id

# ERA5 config (optional, has defaults)
DHIS2_VARIABLE=total_precipitation
DHIS2_VALUE_TRANSFORM=meters_to_millimeters
```

## Viewing Logs

```bash
# Follow logs
docker compose logs -f schedule

# View last 100 lines
docker compose logs --tail 100 schedule
```

## Manual Trigger

To manually trigger an import while scheduler is running:

```bash
docker compose exec schedule dhis2-era5land run
```

## Kubernetes

For Kubernetes deployments, consider using a CronJob instead of the built-in scheduler. See [Docker documentation](docker.md#kubernetes-cronjob) for an example.

Commit message:

docs: expand cron syntax guide with more examples

docs/scheduling.md, after:

# Scheduling

Run automated imports on a schedule using the built-in scheduler.

## Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Create .env file with all required settings
cat > .env << 'EOF'
# CDS API (required - get key from https://cds.climate.copernicus.eu/how-to-api)
CDSAPI_KEY=your-cds-api-key

# DHIS2 connection (required)
DHIS2_BASE_URL=https://your-dhis2-instance.org
DHIS2_USERNAME=your-username
DHIS2_PASSWORD=your-password
DHIS2_DATA_ELEMENT_ID=your-data-element-id

# Date range to import
DHIS2_START_DATE=2024-01-01
DHIS2_END_DATE=2024-12-31

# Schedule (daily at 6am)
DHIS2_CRON=0 6 * * *
EOF

# 2. Start the scheduler
docker compose -f compose.ghcr.yml up -d schedule

# 3. Check it's running
docker compose -f compose.ghcr.yml logs schedule
```

## How It Works

The scheduler mode uses system cron inside the container:

1. Container starts and reads `DHIS2_CRON` environment variable
2. Creates a crontab entry with the specified schedule
3. Runs `cron` daemon in foreground
4. On each trigger, spawns `dhis2-era5land run` as a separate process

This provides **process isolation** - if an import fails or crashes, it doesn't affect the scheduler.

## Environment Variables

| Variable | Required | Description |
|----------|----------|-------------|
| `CDSAPI_KEY` | **Yes** | CDS API key ([get one here](https://cds.climate.copernicus.eu/how-to-api)) |
| `CDSAPI_URL` | No | CDS API URL (default: `https://cds.climate.copernicus.eu/api`) |
| `DHIS2_BASE_URL` | **Yes** | DHIS2 instance URL |
| `DHIS2_USERNAME` | **Yes** | DHIS2 username |
| `DHIS2_PASSWORD` | **Yes** | DHIS2 password |
| `DHIS2_DATA_ELEMENT_ID` | **Yes** | Target data element |
| `DHIS2_START_DATE` | **Yes** | Start date for imports |
| `DHIS2_END_DATE` | **Yes** | End date for imports |
| `DHIS2_CRON` | No | Cron expression (default: `0 1 * * *`) |

## Cron Syntax

```
┌───────────── minute (0-59)
│ ┌─────────── hour (0-23)
│ │ ┌───────── day of month (1-31)
│ │ │ ┌─────── month (1-12)
│ │ │ │ ┌───── day of week (0-6, Sunday=0)
│ │ │ │ │
* * * * *
```

**Special characters:**

| Character | Meaning | Example |
|-----------|---------|---------|
| `*` | Any value | `* * * * *` = every minute |
| `,` | List | `0,30 * * * *` = at :00 and :30 |
| `-` | Range | `0 9-17 * * *` = hourly 9am-5pm |
| `/` | Step | `*/15 * * * *` = every 15 minutes |

## Cron Expression Examples

| Expression | Description |
|------------|-------------|
| `0 6 * * *` | Daily at 6:00 AM |
| `0 0 * * *` | Daily at midnight |
| `0 6,18 * * *` | Twice daily at 6:00 AM and 6:00 PM |
| `0 */6 * * *` | Every 6 hours |
| `0 6 * * 1-5` | Weekdays at 6:00 AM |
| `0 6 * * 1` | Weekly on Monday at 6:00 AM |
| `0 6 * * 0` | Weekly on Sunday at 6:00 AM |
| `0 0 1 * *` | Monthly on the 1st at midnight |
| `0 6 1 */3 *` | Quarterly on the 1st at 6:00 AM |
| `0 6 1 1 *` | Yearly on January 1st at 6:00 AM |
| `*/5 * * * *` | Every 5 minutes (for testing) |

**Tip:** Use [crontab.guru](https://crontab.guru/) to build and test cron expressions interactively.

## Docker Compose

### Using Pre-built Image (recommended)

```bash
docker compose -f compose.ghcr.yml up schedule
```

### Building Locally

```bash
docker compose up schedule
```

## Example .env File

```env
# CDS API (required)
CDSAPI_URL=https://cds.climate.copernicus.eu/api
CDSAPI_KEY=your-cds-api-key

# Schedule (optional, defaults to daily at 1am)
DHIS2_CRON=0 6 * * *

# Date range
DHIS2_START_DATE=2024-01-01
DHIS2_END_DATE=2024-12-31

# DHIS2 connection
DHIS2_BASE_URL=https://your-dhis2-instance.org
DHIS2_USERNAME=your-username
DHIS2_PASSWORD=your-password
DHIS2_DATA_ELEMENT_ID=your-data-element-id

# ERA5 config (optional, has defaults)
DHIS2_VARIABLE=total_precipitation
DHIS2_VALUE_TRANSFORM=meters_to_millimeters
```

## Viewing Logs

```bash
# Follow logs
docker compose logs -f schedule

# View last 100 lines
docker compose logs --tail 100 schedule
```

## Manual Trigger

To manually trigger an import while scheduler is running:

```bash
docker compose exec schedule dhis2-era5land run
```

## Kubernetes

For Kubernetes deployments, consider using a CronJob instead of the built-in scheduler. See [Docker documentation](docker.md#kubernetes-cronjob) for an example.
